Business Context
Renewable energy sources play an increasingly important role in the global energy mix, as the effort to reduce the environmental impact of energy production increases.

Out of all the renewable energy alternatives, wind energy is one of the most developed technologies worldwide. The U.S. Department of Energy has put together a guide to achieving operational efficiency using predictive maintenance practices.

Predictive maintenance uses sensor information and analysis methods to measure and predict degradation and future component capability. The idea behind predictive maintenance is that failure patterns are predictable and if component failure can be predicted accurately and the component is replaced before it fails, the costs of operation and maintenance will be much lower.

The sensors fitted across different machines involved in the process of energy generation collect data related to various environmental factors (temperature, humidity, wind speed, etc.) and additional features related to various parts of the wind turbine (gearbox, tower, blades, break, etc.).

Objective
“ReneWind” is a company working on improving the machinery/processes involved in the production of wind energy using machine learning and has collected data on generator failure of wind turbines using sensors. They have shared a ciphered version of the data, as the data collected through sensors is confidential (the type of data collected varies with companies). Data has 40 predictors, 20000 observations in the training set, and 5000 in the test set.

The objective is to build various classification models, tune them, and find the best one that will help identify failures so that the generators can be repaired before failing/breaking to reduce the overall maintenance cost.
The nature of predictions made by the classification model will translate as follows:

True positives (TP) are failures correctly predicted by the model. These will result in repair costs.
False negatives (FN) are real failures where there is no detection by the model. These will result in replacement costs.
False positives (FP) are detections where there is no failure. These will result in inspection costs.
It is given that the cost of repairing a generator is much less than the cost of replacing it, and the cost of inspection is less than the cost of repair.

“1” in the target variable should be considered as “failure” and “0” represents “No failure”.

Data Dictionary
The data provided is a transformed version of the original data which was collected using sensors.

Train.csv - To be used for training and tuning of models.
Test.csv - To be used only for testing the performance of the final best model.
Both datasets consist of 40 predictor variables and 1 target variable.

Submission Guidelines
Kindly go through the instructions below before attempting the project.

The project submission should be asingle Python notebook in HTML (.html) format.
If Jupyter Notebook is used, the Python notebook can be exported as an HTML file from the File menu.
If Google Colab (it is preferable) is used, the Python notebook must first be downloaded as a .ipynb file from Colab. Then, it can be converted and exported as an HTML file using this link.
Any assignment foundcopied/plagiarized from any source will not be evaluated and awarded zero marks.
Please ensure timely submission asany submission post-deadline will either not be accepted for evaluation or attract penalties.
Important Points to Note
Thoroughlyread the problem statement and project rubricbefore starting to work on the project.
Apply the concepts and techniques you have learned in the previous weeks and summarise your insights at the end.
Pleaserun the code from start to end sequentially,add the observations and insightsas applicable, and thensubmit the file in the mentioned format.
Before submitting the file, pleasemake sure that all the sections mentioned in the rubric have been coveredand thecode outputs are clearly visiblein your submission.
If the code in the submission is correct but not executed, 50% of the marks will be deducted from the corresponding rubric section.
Kindly connect with the Program Manager in case of any confusion.

Power Ahead!
